---
# global predefined variables
layout: tla_page
permalink: /four-plus-one/
published: true
# meta-data variables
title: 4+1 Accelerated Degree
description: >-
  Earn an undergraduate BA and graduate MA degree in English in just five years with our 4+1 Accelerated Dual Degree program at Temple
  University’s College of Liberal Arts. Learn more about our requirements, course schedule, and application in the department of English.
keywords: 'dual degree program, Temple Department of English, four plus one program'
# custom variables
sidebar: true
sidebar_content: sidebars/accelerated.html
---
## Earn a BA and MA in Five Years
The 4+1 BA/MA in in English allows you to graduate with both an undergraduate and graduate degree in just 5 years. We designed the program for high-achieving English majors who excel during the first 3 years at the Department of English, and who seek out the added credential of a master's degree. Having an MA in English is helpful for publishing, teaching and writing positions - the 4+1 program also provides you a competitive edge when applying to PhD programs. If you are interested in the 4+1 Accelerated BA/MA degree Program, apply during your junior year.

In addition to fulfilling all the requirements for the BA in English by the end of your senior year, you must complete all requirements for the MA in English by the end of your fifth year. The complete list of requirements are listed below.

- **9 English graduate courses (27 credits)**: One of which must be at the advanced level (8000-9000)
- **3 graduate courses in the fourth or senior year**: These 3 graduate courses will substitute for 3 required courses for the undergraduate major. We recommend students take Eng 9001: Introduction to Graduate Studies or enroll in an alternate Eng 5000-7000 level course. In the spring semester, students take two courses that should also be at the 5000-7000 level. The 3 graduate courses taken senior year substitute for one of the required undergraduate 2000 level courses, and 2 of the required 3000 level courses.
- **6 graduate English courses in their fifth or MA year**
- **English 9996: Masters Essay (3 credits)**: Student work under the guidance of a faculty mentor on the Masters Qualifying Essay and submit the Qualifying Essay by the Spring semester deadline for acceptance.
- **Masters Qualifying Essay**: The Qualifying Essay is typically a substantial revision of a paper submitted for a course and is written in the final semester under the guidance of a faculty mentor, who also approves the essay for submission. The Qualifying Essay demonstrates the student’s ability to write perceptively, lucidly, and at length (4,000-6,000 words) on a literary subject, and is due in the final semester by a date specified in the Graduate English Calendar.
- **Language Requirement**: Students are required to demonstrate reading knowledge of one foreign language by either passing a translation exam or completing 6 credits of language courses beyond the intermediate language level in either the fourth or fifth year of the program.

### Application Requirements
Applications are due to the English Graduate Office by March 15, and a decision is provided by April 1. Successful applicants to the accelerated BA/MA program must demonstrate exceptional academic achievement as English majors at Temple University. In addition, you must be on track to complete the requirements of the BA in English in four years. In rare instances, we admit students who are able to complete the requirements of the BA in the course of the 5 year dual degree program. Transfer students who will be able to complete both programs in 5 years are eligible to apply.

The complete list of eligibility requirements for the dual degree program are listed below.

- Undergraduate GPA in English of at least 3.8
- Overall GPA of at least 3.5 in at last 45 credits of coursework taken at Temple.
- Completion of required 2000 level courses (English 2097, English 2201, English 2202, English 2301, English 2302) by the end of junior year. If you have 1 elective 2000 level course left to complete by your senior year, you may be admitted to the program.
- You must complete at least 21 of the the 36 required credits for your BA for admission consideration.
- If you complete more than 24 credits required for a BA by the Spring semester of junior year, we will give your application preference in the admissions process.

### Application Instructions
Submit the following materials to apply for the 4+1 BA/MA in in English program.

- A paper copy of the [Temple University Graduate Application Form](https://prd-wlssb.temple.edu/prod8/bwskalog.P_DispLoginNon).
- Two letters of recommendation from full-time Temple University faculty, including at least one from a tenure-track member of the English Department graduate faculty
- A statement of purpose outlining your goals for entering the accelerated B.A./M.A. program
- A writing sample that shows your ability to complete graduate level courses. We require a writing sample drawn from an upper-division English course taken at Temple.
- We will notify you of the committee’s decision by April 1. Admission to the accelerated BA/MA program is conditional on the successful completion of necessary major requirements in the Spring semester of your junior year, as well as on your ability to maintain a 3.5 overall GPA.
